[MUSIC]
>> JavaScript which was designed
as a scripting language for
the browser has seen deployment
far beyond the browser.
Node.js has played a significant
role in this shift
of JavaScript from
the browser to the desktop.
Let's now learn a little bit about what
Node.js is and what role does NPM,
the Node Package Manager,
play in the context of Node.js.
Node.js, as I mentioned earlier,
allows us to bring the power
of JavaScript to the desktop.
Node js is based on the JavaScript runtime
engine that has been built for
the Chrome browser.
So the Chrome V8 JavaScript Engine has
been ported from the browser to run
on the desktop and support the execution
of JavaScript programs on the desktop.
Node.js is built around an event-driven,
non-blocking I/O model which makes
it very efficient to run JavaScript
programs on the desktop,
asynchronous JavaScript on the desktop.
Now this is where Node
finds its true polish.
Right now we will examine Node.js in the
context its use as a JavaScript runtime.
We will look at the server
side application of Node.js
in detail in the last course
of this specialization.
This is the typical
architecture of Node.js.
So in this, the Chrome V8 engine
is the bottom layer together with
libuv, forms the layer that interacts with
the underlying computer system to support
the execution of JavaScript programs.
On top of it we have Node Bindings
which is also implemented in C++.
At the top layer you have the Node.js and
Standard Library, which are all
implemented in JavaScript and this is what
enables us to write JavaScript
programs and run them on the desktop.
Naturally the ability to run
JavaScript programs on the desktop
energize the web development
community to explore using
JavaScript to develop a significant
number of web development tools.
Tools such as Bower, Grunt,
Gulp, Yeoman, and many others.
We will explore some of these in
the later part of this course and
in subsequent courses.
The last course in
the specialization as I mentioned,
looks at the use of Node.js
on the server side.
How we can develop web server,
business logic,
all implemented in JavaScript
on the server side.
Together with Node you often
hear people talking about
the Node package manager or NPM.
When you install Node on your computer
NPM automatically gets installed.
The Node package manager is
the manager for the Node ecosystem.
It manages all the Node modules and
packages that have been made publicly
available by many different users.
A typical Node package consist of
JavaScript files together with
a file called package.json which is
the manifest file for this Node module.
We will look at how we can
use the package.json file
in more detail in
the subsequent exercises.
>> [MUSIC]